ANALYST CERTIFICATION AND IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES ARE LOCATED IN APPENDIX A. 
Yuanta does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should 
be aware that the firm may have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should 
consider this report as only a single factor in making their investment decision. 
MUA 
Mức tăng giá mục tiêu:  
+52% 
Đóng cửa:  
 
 
30/07/2026 
Giá hiện tại:   
 
21.800 đồng 
Giá mục tiêu 12T:  
 
33.200 đồng 
Tương quan giá cổ phiếu với VN-Index 
 
Vốn hóa thị trường (tỷ USD) 
7,0 
GTGD BQ 6T (triệu USD) 
35,7 
SLCP đang lưu hành (triệu CP) 
8.443 
Tỷ lệ chuyển nhượng tự do (%) 
55,0% 
Sở hữu nước ngoài (%) 
21,5% 
Cổ đông lớn (%) 
32,7% 
Nợ vay/VCSH Q2/2026 
43% 
P/E 2026E 
10,1x 
Room ngoại còn lại (%) 
27,5% 
Tỷ suất cổ tức 2026E (%) 
4,6% 
 
       Nguồn: Fiinpro, Bloomberg, Yuanta Việt Nam 
 
 
 
 
 
CTCP Tập đoàn Hòa Phát (HPG)  
Vững vàng như Thép  
PATMI Q2/2026 (+49% YoY) đạt 6,4 nghìn tỷ đồng, vượt trên cả lợi nhuận cốt lõi 
Q1/2026 – 5,2 nghìn tỷ đồng, chủ yếu dẫn dắt bởi khả năng hấp thụ HRC vượt 
trội. Do đó, LNST 1H2026 hoàn thành 70% kế hoạch cty và 65% dự phóng của 
chúng tôi.  
Tóm tắt KQKD Q2/2026  
Tổng sản lượng tiêu thụ tăng trưởng +9% QoQ / +23% YoY, nhờ mảng HRC 
+36% QoQ / +62% YoY. Sự gia tăng sản lượng chủ yếu được hỗ trợ bởi Thuế 
CBPG 27,83% tạm thời áp lên HRC khổ rộng nhập khẩu từ Trung Quốc (từ tháng 
4/2026).  
Nội địa vẫn là thị trường chính của HPG. HRC xuất khẩu ghi nhận con số tăng 
trưởng ấn tượng (+94% YoY) trong 6T2026, nhưng về mặt giá trị tuyệt đối ~600 
nghìn tấn – vẫn là một con số nhỏ so với tổng sản lượng tiêu thụ (~9%).   
Khả năng chuyển hóa phần gia tăng NVL sang giá bán. Biên LN gộp mảng 
thép mở rộng +3 điểm phần trăm YoY trong khi sức ép NVL đầu vào gia tăng 
(quặng sắt +8% YoY; than cốc +29% YoY), nhờ khả năng gia tăng giá bán (+27% 
YoY). Mặc dù giá bán giảm nhẹ 5% so với Q1/2026, NVL đầu vào cũng cho thấy 
sự hạ nhiệt 3-5% QoQ tương ứng.  
Mảng nông nghiệp là điểm trừ duy nhất, với doanh thu sụt giảm 22% YoY trong 
1H2026, biên LNG thu hẹp -3 điểm phần trăm YoY. Tuy nhiên, tác động lên lợi 
nhuận hợp nhất Tập đoàn không đáng kể do mảng này chỉ đóng góp ~4% LNST 
trong nửa đầu năm.  
Quan điểm  
Môi trường cạnh tranh thông thoáng hơn. BCT chính thức áp thuế CBPG thời 
hạn 5 năm lên HRC khổ rộng nhập khẩu từ Trung Quốc vào cuối tháng 7 vừa qua, 
giúp gia tăng sức cạnh tranh của các doanh nghiệp sản xuất trong nước.  
Dự án Thép đường ray hoàn thành 50% tiến độ, với mẻ thép đầu tiên dự kiến 
ra lò vào Q1/2027. Chúng tôi cho rằng còn quá sớm để đưa dự án vào định giá, 
khi tuyến Đường sắt cao tốc Bắc Nam vẫn trong giai đoạn đầu. Tuy nhiên dựa 
trên quan sát, chúng tôi cho rằng HPG có thể nhắm đến việc xuất khẩu sang Lào 
và Cambodia, hai nước hiện đang thực hiện nâng cấp tuyến đường sắt quốc gia 
cũng như phát triển các tuyến đường sắt thông quan với Việt Nam và Trung Quốc.   
Chúng tôi duy trì khuyến nghị MUA. HPG là cổ phiếu ưa thích của chúng tôi 
cho chiến lược đầu tư 2H2026 cũng như 2027. Chúng tôi ước tính Dung Quất 2 
chỉ mới vận hành 65% công suất thiết kế, do đó còn nhiều dư địa để gia tăng sản 
lượng trong bối cảnh thị trường cạnh tranh thuận lợi.  
 (100
 (50)
 -
 50
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
Jul-25
Oct-25
Jan-26
Apr-26
HPG (VND, LHS)
HPG vs. VNIndex (RHS)
 
Báo cáo nhanh 
 
 
 
 
Việt Nam: Ngành Thép 
3 August 2026 
Chuyên viên phân tích : 
Kim Ngân, ACCA 
Ngan.le@yuanta.com.vn 
Bloomberg code: YUTA

Appendix A: Important Disclosures 
Analyst Certification 
Each research analyst primarily responsible for the content of this research report, in whole or in part, certifies that with respect to 
each security or issuer that the analyst covered in this report: (1) all of the views expressed accurately reflect his or her personal 
views about those securities or issuers; and (2) no part of his or her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related 
to the specific recommendations or views expressed by that research analyst in the research report. 
 
 
Ratings Definitions 
BUY: We have a positive outlook on the stock based on our expected absolute or relative return over the investment period. Our 
thesis is based on our analysis of the company’s outlook, financial performance, catalysts, valuation and risk profile.  We recommend 
investors add to their position. 
HOLD-Outperform: In our view, the stock’s fundamentals are relatively more attractive than peers at the current price. Our thesis is 
based on our analysis of the company’s outlook, financial performance, catalysts, valuation and risk profile.  
HOLD-Underperform: In our view, the stock’s fundamentals are relatively less attractive than peers at the current price.  Our thesis 
is based on our analysis of the company’s outlook, financial performance, catalysts, valuation and risk profile.  
SELL: We have a negative outlook on the stock based on our expected absolute or relative return over the investment period. Our 
thesis is based on our analysis of the company’s outlook, financial performance, catalysts, valuation and risk profile.  We recommend 
investors reduce their position. 
Under Review: We actively follow the company, although our estimates, rating and target price are under review. 
Restricted: The rating and target price have been suspended temporarily to comply with applicable regulations and/or Yuanta policies. 
 
Note: Yuanta research coverage with a Target Price is based on an investment period of 12 months.  Greater China Discovery Series 
coverage does not have a formal 12 month Target Price and the recommendation is based on an investment period specified by the 
analyst in the report. 
 
Global Disclaimer 
© 2020 Yuanta. All rights reserved. The information in this report has been compiled from sources we believe to be reliable, but we 
do not hold ourselves responsible for its completeness or accuracy. It is not an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any 
securities. All opinions and estimates included in this report constitute our judgment as of this date and are subject to change 
without notice.  
 
This report provides general information only. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or 
invitation to make an offer to buy or sell securities or other investments. This material is prepared for general circulation to clients 
and is not intended to provide tailored investment advice and does not take into account the individual financial situation and 
objectives of any specific person who may receive this report. Investors should seek financial advice regarding the appropriateness 
of investing in any securities, investments or investment strategies discussed or recommended in this report. The information 
contained in this report has been compiled from sources believed to be reliable but no representation or warranty, express or implied, 
is made as to its accuracy, completeness or correctness. This report is not (and should not be construed as) a solicitation to act as 
securities broker or dealer in any jurisdiction by any person or company that is not legally permitted to carry on such business in 
that jurisdiction.  
 
Yuanta research is distributed in the United States only to Major U.S. Institutional Investors (as defined in Rule 15a-6 under the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and SEC staff interpretations thereof).  All transactions by a US person in the securities 
mentioned in this report must be effected through a registered broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended. Yuanta research is distributed in Taiwan by Yuanta Securities Investment Consulting. Yuanta research is 
distributed in Hong Kong by Yuanta Securities (Hong Kong) Co. Limited, which is licensed in Hong Kong by the Securities and Futures 
Commission for regulated activities, including Type 4 regulated activity (advising on securities). In Hong Kong, this research report 
may not be redistributed, retransmitted or disclosed, in whole or in part or and any form or manner, without the express written 
consent of Yuanta Securities (Hong Kong) Co. Limited.  
 
Taiwan persons wishing to obtain further information on any of the securities mentioned in this publication should contact: 
 
Attn: Research 
Yuanta Securities Investment Consulting 
4F, 225,  
Section 3 Nanking East Road, Taipei 104 
Taiwan 
 
Hong Kong persons wishing to obtain further information on any of the securities mentioned in this publication should contact: 
 
Attn: Research 
Yuanta Securities (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd 
23/F, Tower 1, Admiralty Centre 
18 Harcourt Road, 
Hong Kong

Korean persons wishing to obtain further information on any of the securities mentioned in this publication should contact: 
 
Head Office 
Yuanta Securities Building 
Euljiro 76 Jung-gu 
Seoul, Korea 100-845 
Tel: +822 3770 3454 
 
Indonesia persons wishing to obtain further information on any of the securities mentioned in this publication should contact: 
 
Attn: Research 
PT YUANTA SECURITIES INDONESIA 
(A member of the Yuanta Group) 
Equity Tower, 10th Floor Unit EFGH 
SCBD Lot 9 
Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53 
Tel: (6221) – 5153608 (General) 
 
Thailand persons wishing to obtain further information on any of the securities mentioned in this publication should contact: 
 
Research department 
Yuanta Securities (Thailand) 
127 Gaysorn Tower, 16th floor 
Ratchadamri Road, Pathumwan 
Bangkok 10330 
 
Vietnam persons wishing to obtain further information on any of the securities mentioned in this publication should contact:  
 
Research department  
Yuanta Securities (Vietnam)  
4th Floor, Saigon Centre  
Tower 1, 65 Le Loi Boulevard,  
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1,  
HCMC, Vietnam 
 
For U.S. persons only: This research report is a product of Yuanta Securities Vietnam Limited Company, under Marco Polo Securities 
15a-6 chaperone service, which is the employer of the research analyst(s) who has prepared the research report. The research 
analyst(s) preparing the research report is/are resident outside the United States (U.S.) and are not associated persons of any U.S. 
regulated broker-dealer and therefore the analyst(s) is/are not subject to supervision by a U.S. broker-dealer, and is/are not 
required to satisfy the regulatory licensing requirements of FINRA or required to otherwise comply with U.S. rules or regulations 
regarding, among other things, communications with a subject company, public appearances and trading securities held by a 
research analyst account. 
 
Research reports are intended for distribution only to "Major Institutional Investors" as defined by Rule 15a-6(b)(4) of the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Act, 1934 (the Exchange Act) and interpretations thereof by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
in reliance on Rule 15a-6(a)(2). If the recipient of this report is not a Major Institutional Investor as specified above, then it should 
not act upon this report and return the same to the sender. Further, this report may not be copied, duplicated and/or transmitted 
onward to any U.S. person, which is not the Major Institutional Investor. In reliance on the exemption from registration provided by 
Rule 15a-6 of the Exchange Act and interpretations thereof by the SEC in order to conduct certain business with Major Institutional 
Investors, Yuanta Securities Vietnam Limited Company has entered into a chaperoning agreement with a U.S. registered broker-
dealer, Marco Polo Securities Inc. ("Marco Polo"). 
 
Transactions in securities discussed in this research report should be affected through Marco Polo or another U.S. registered broker 
dealer.

YUANTA SECURITIES NETWORK  
YUANTA SECURITIES VIETNAM OFFICE 
Head office: 4th Floor, Saigon Centre, Tower 1, 65 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, HCMC, Vietnam 
Institutional Research 
 
 
 
 
 
MatthewaSmith, CFA 
Head of Research 
matthew.smith@yuanta.com.vn 
BinhaTruong  
Technology 
binh.truong@yuanta.com.vn 
 
 
Tanh Tran  
Analyst (Banks) 
tanh.tran@yuanta.com.vn 
Tam Nguyen  
Analyst (Macro) 
tam.nguyen@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Di Luu  
Analyst (Consumer)  
di.luu@yuanta.com.vn 
An Nguyen 
Analyst (Industrials) 
an.nguyen@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Kien Tran 
Analyst (Residential Property) 
kien.tran@yuanta.com.vn 
 
GiangaHoang 
Analyst (Industrial Property) 
giang.hoang@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Ngan Le 
Analyst (Steel, O&G, Energy) 
ngan.le@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Nhi Ly 
AssistantaAnalyst  
nhi.ly@yuanta.com.vn 
Institutional Sales  
Lawrence Heavey 
Head of Institutional Sales  
lawrence.heavey@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Jason Lu  
Institutional Sales Manager 
jason.lu@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Linh Y Nguyen 
Trader 
linh.nguyen4@yuanta.com.vn 
Tuan-Anh Nguyen 
Trading Manager 
anh.nguyen2@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Vi Truong 
Trader 
vi.truong@yuanta.com.vn 
 
Linh Khanh Nguyen 
Trader 
linh.nguyen2@yuanta.com.vn